README: clarify voici and voici-core differences (#110)
voila-dashboards/voici: python/voici/README.md

- Generates self-contained HTML files with embedded Wasm kernels.
- Works offline, without requiring a server to run the dashboard.
- Supports custom templates for styling dashboards, powered by Jinja2.
- Supports all programming languages that have JupyterLite kernels available. _e.g._ the default JavaScript and Python kernels JupyterLite provides, and [xeus kernels](https://github.com/jupyterlite/xeus)

## Difference between `voici` and `voici-core` packages

- The `voici-core` package is the core functionalities of voici, mainly the voici CLI.
- The `voici` package is a meta-package installing both `voici-core` and [`jupyterlite-xeus`](https://github.com/jupyterlite/xeus).

> `jupyterlite-xeus` allows you to pre-install packages for running your dashboard. For example, if your dashboard requires Matplotlib you can provide an `environment.yml` file in the folder where you run the voici command, containing the following:

Reviewer: Maybe there could be a link to the `jupyterlite-xeus` documentation, and a quick note to explain why `voici` chooses to depend on `jupyterlite-xeus` by default?

Reviewer: Also as discussed in https://github.com/voila-dashboards/voici/pull/106#issuecomment-1903558394, maybe this change can be documented in the changelog (or in a new migration guide)? For those who already have a Voici deployment.

Although normally this will probably be transparent to the users (especially those using Pyodide), because `jupyterlite-xeus` would not do much if there is no xeus kernel installed?

Reviewer: > Maybe there could be a link to the `jupyterlite-xeus` documentation, and a quick note to explain why `voici` chooses to depend on `jupyterlite-xeus` by default?

Something saying that it helps supports other kernels such as `xeus-javascript`, `xeus-lua`, `xeus-nelson` and so on would also be nice.

Author: Thanks for the comment, I pushed another commit resolving them.

> Although normally this will probably be transparent to the users (especially those using Pyodide), because jupyterlite-xeus would not do much if there is no xeus kernel installed?

It should not impact them indeed. Let's add changelog notes during the release.

- Generates self-contained HTML files with embedded Wasm kernels.
- Works offline, without requiring a server to run the dashboard.
- Supports custom templates for styling dashboards, powered by Jinja2.
- Supports all programming languages that have JupyterLite kernels available. _e.g._ the default JavaScript and Python kernels JupyterLite provides, and [xeus kernels](https://github.com/jupyterlite/xeus)

## Python packages provided by voici:

Voici is split between two Python packages:

> - The `voici-core` package is the core functionalities of voici, mainly the voici CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `voici-core` package provides the core functionalities of voici, mainly the voici CLI.
```

> - The `voici` package is a meta-package installing both `voici-core` and [`jupyterlite-xeus`](https://github.com/jupyterlite/xeus).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `voici` package is a meta-package that depends on both `voici-core` and [`jupyterlite-xeus`](https://github.com/jupyterlite/xeus).
```

`jupyterlite-xeus` allows you to pre-install packages for running your dashboard. For example, if your dashboard requires Matplotlib you can provide an `environment.yml` file in the folder where you run the voici command, containing the following:

```yml
name: my-dashboard-env
channels:
  - https://repo.mamba.pm/emscripten-forge
  - conda-forge
dependencies:
  - xeus-python
  - matplotlib
```

It has been decided that `voici` would depend on `jupyterlite-xeus` for convenience, **allowing to easily switch from voila to voici without the need to update the Notebook code.**.

Note that you can install multiple xeus kernels like [xeus-python](https://github.com/jupyter-xeus/xeus-python), [xeus-lua](https://github.com/jupyter-xeus/xeus-lua) or [xeus-javascript](https://github.com/jupyter-xeus/xeus-javascript).

```{note}
See the [jupyterlite-xeus documentation](https://jupyterlite-xeus.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) for more information
```

> If you would like to use https://github.com/jupyterlite/pyodide-kernel or another non-xeus kernel, you probably want to depend on `voici-core` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to use https://github.com/jupyterlite/pyodide-kernel or another non-xeus kernel, you may want to depend on `voici-core` and `jupyterlite-pyodide-kernel` instead.
```
